{{plot}} Mahadevan ([[Mukesh , Govindan Kutty ([[Siddique , Appukuttan  and Thomas Kutty ([[Ashokan  are four young men who live in the town 'Harihar Nagar'. The movie starts with an incident which take place in Bombay, where a briefcase is carried by a man and given to another man, and that man gives it to another man. The 'third' man is being followed by another two men who want the briefcase. The man calls a taxi and goes off, thinking that he is safe. But then the taxi stops at an isolated place, the driver shoots the man, and takes the money. In the next scene the foursome are then shown, with the song "unnam marannu thenni paranna". A lady whose name is "Maya" , along with her grandparents are Mahadevan's new neighbour. Appukkuttan gives this news to the other three and they disappear to Mahadevan's house, to see her. The foursome try to impress her during which they find her posting a letter. They bribe the postman and manage to get that letter. Through the letter they come to know that Maya is at the town to know more about the murder of her brother - Sedu Madhavan . The foursome follow Maya to a library and find a man tampering with a bike. Thinking it to be Maya's bike, they beat up the man to impress her however she doesn't notice them and goes her way. Maya visits the house of Andrews ([[Saikumar  - friend of Sedu Madhavan. She requests Androse's mother - Ammachi  to contact her if she gets any information about her brother. The foursome meet Ammachi as Sedu's friends. They manage to get Sedu's photo by telling that they want it for the colony's sport's club. Maya gets this info from Ammachi and meet then. She believes them to be Sedu's friends after seeing his photo at their house. The foursome make a story about an affair of Sedu and another girl. Hearing this news about them being the friends of Sedu Madhavan,they are kidnapped by John Honai, who wants a 'briefcase'.Maya was in search of her brother's girlfriend and she finds details of "Rekha", who was close to her brother from the library. The back story of Sedu is said when she questions rekha about Sedu. Androse's father was a businessman who was killed by John Honai's father and he build a business empire with the money taken from Androse's father. Androse creates trouble in that business to take revenge. Honai's father then sells all his assets and try to run away with that money in the 'briefcase'. Androse was the taxi driver who shot him as shown in the first scene. He gives that briefcase to Sedu Madhavan but gets killed soon after. Sedu comes to Harihar Nagar to give this money to Ammachi but when he gets to know that Ammachi is ignorant of Androse's death and is still waiting for him, he gives it to 'Rekha'who is Androse's girlfriend. Foursome escape from Honai, and are on run followed by Honai's men when they meet another set of goons led by the man they had beaten up near the library.They escape, leaving Honai's gang and the other man's gang to fight with each other. Then Maya and her grandparents are caught by Honai but foursome rescue them. Ammachi comes to know about Androse's death from Rekha who gives her the briefcase. Honai comes to her house to get the briefcase. The cooking gas was left on when Honai enters the home, and he is killed when he switches on a lighter. Maya is packing her things to leave Hariharnagar. She meets the foursome before leaving and hands them a briefcase as a gift. When her car leaves, the briefcase opens and the money, jewellary, everything falls out. She shouts from the car that it is for them. They become happy, and the film ends.