Mary, an orphan lives in an orphanage run by nuns. She is good at studies and is artistically talented. Until her adulthood, her education was being sponsored by a philanthropist. Though she has never met her sponsor, an old man, but she gets to know of the fact that he is the sponsor through the nuns. Her sponsor one day passes away. As a result, her dreams of a college education are ruined. She struggles to get educated further. Mr. Robert Brown , who is now at the helm of affairs of his father's business, agrees to continue her sponsorship. Bob is a bachelor and Mary falls in love with Bob. She learns that love comes when you least expect it in this romantic drama. A new patron comes to her aid, but love threatens to get in the way of Mary's education. Anokha Rishta, perfectly harmonizing with its title, is the story of an unusual relationship between Mary  and Robert Brown . Teenager Mary is an orphan and lives in an orphanage run by nuns. Her education had been sponsored by Robert’s father in his lifetime. After the demise of his father, when Robert takes independent charge of the family business, he comes to know of this sponsorship. Being benevolent by nature, he decides to continue it in his father’s name itself. Mary has never met her sponsor and she even does not know him by name. For her, the identity of her sponsor is ’uncle’ only to whom she regularly writes letters and her uncle  always responds to them. A youth  loves her but she ignores his advances because of his image of an irresponsible and loafer boy. On the other hand, Robert has always been in love with Dr. Pramila  but due to following different religious faiths and their parents not allowing them to marry someone from a different religion, they could not marry. However being mature and true lovers, they chose not to marry somebody else too and decided to remain bachelors only. The twist in the tale comes with Mary coming across Robert in a party and despite himself being more than double of her age, falls in love with him. She expresses her feelings to him but he discourages her from making advances towards him in this way. On the other hand, maintaining a benevolent attitude and wanting her to lead a happy life, Robert helps Mary’s lover to come closer to her and guides him to grow up, besides giving him a job in his own office. Mary, being mad in Robert’s love without knowing that he only is her sponsor and 'her uncle’ whom she writes to and gets letters from, keeps on living in her dreamy world of a married life with Robert. Her problem is that she cannot share her feelings and mental agony  with ’her uncle’ because all the incoming and outgoing letters  of Mary are screened first by the head of the orphanage . Finally, when Robert breaks her heart , she decides to become a nun and writes a final letter to 'her uncle’ with a special and last request to the head of the orphanage to deliver it to ’her uncle’ without opening it and reading its content. Dr. Pramila, knowing all these developments, tries to stop Mary but she remains firm on her decision. Now her lover  also gets desperate upon knowing this decision of hers. Finally the onus falls on the shoulders of Robert only to do something to prevent Mary from taking this drastic step and that leads to the highly emotional and impressive climax.