Following a tip from a small time lodge owner , the ATS conducts a search at the rooms where a group of suspicious youths stayed. Baba Kalyani , the ATS superintendent finds certain vital clues, which he wants to follow after. Upon the permission from Bose Ninan , the IG of police, Baba Kalyani takes arrives in Kochi. He is posted in traffic department as undercover with Thomas Chandy  and a couple of ATS officers assisting him. At Kochi, Kalyani clashes with advocate Ashokan ([[Murali  and Advocate Madhumitha , his daughter, who was his ex-girlfriend. A bundle of counterfeit currency is found at a local bank, which was transferred from the account of a charity organization run by Sait Isra Mohammed Haji([[Saikumar , a respected businessman. Baba Kalyani reaches out the residence of Isra Mohammed at the same night, Isra denies any knowledge about any hawala dealings in the state. The cash was transferred from the account by Babur , Isra Mohammed's son-in-law, who is also a college lecturer. Babu is king-pin of a terror organization in the state. He along with a bunch of young men had secretly undergone Jihadi training and is planning a massive explosion. But unaware of this, Isra supports him thinking Babu is a normal college lecturer busy with his own life. One morning Isra arrives at Baba Kalyani's residence informing about a group of suspicious young men recently seen at the near by mosque. He also adds that the Muslyar of the mosque has some doubts regarding their activities. Baba Kalyani along with his group conducts a raid at the house and gathers vital information. The house gets exploded, signing the storage of inflammable explosives. Baba Kalyani, from the prints, maps and photographs concludes that their next target is Palani, a divine pilgrimage center in South India. He arrives at Palani along with his team, where meets up Raghupathi ([[Siddique , the superintendent of police. With the support of local police, Baba seize the trucks in which the explosives were stored. Baba sends Isra Mohammed as a negotiator to Babu who was hiding along with a group of Jihadis. But unwilling to give up the plan,Babu decides to shoot down Isra. The ATS team conducts a commando operation under Baba Kalyani and shoots down the jihadis aborting their plan.