Hitman Joe goes to Bangkok for a month-long assignment, to kill four people for Bangkok ganglord Surat. He hires pickpocket Kong as his go-between, a condition of the contract being that the gang will never meet Joe. Contracts from the Bangkok gangsters go through Kong via a nightclub dancer, Aom, who becomes romantically involved with Kong. Joe's first execution is done in traffic with him riding a bike and stopping in front of the car. He then shoots the target with a machine pistol. Originally he plans to kill Kong before he leaves but after Kong gives him information about the second target he begins to train Kong. His second target is a gangster/sexual predator who buys young girls from the North from their parents and sells them for sex. Joe sneaks into the penthouse and kills the target by drowning him in the pool. Before the third kill the gang attempt to identify Joe & he warns them off. For the third execution Kong assists Joe, the kill does not go as planned, with the target nearly getting away before Joe catches him and shoots him after a chase in front of many shocked onlookers. His fourth target is the Prime Minister of Thailand. Joe is about to make the kill when he has second thoughts, is spotted, and escapes through a panicking crowd. Joe is now a target and is attacked at his house by four gang members. He manages to use explosives to take them out and is faced with the choice of rescuing Kong or leaving the country unharmed. Joe decides to rescue Kong, so he sets off to the gang's headquarters with one of the half-alive attackers. Joe goes to the gang's headquarters, kills most of the gang and saves Kong and Aom. The fearful gang leader flees to his car with three other accomplices. Joe spots him and shoots the gang members. Joe gets into the back seat with Surat, the gang leader. As the police arrive at the location, Joe realises he has only one bullet. He puts his head adjacent to Surat's, puts the gun up to his temple and pulls the trigger, killing himself and Surat.