In 1992, Bogota, Colombia, a man named Fabio , is having a meeting with Don Luis Sandoval , a drug lord, to pay off his remaining debt and leave his employment. Fabio, however, knows that Don Luis will put a hit out on him for leaving. Fabio rushes home and warns Alicia , his wife, that Marco , Don Luis' caporegime, is coming after them. While Alicia packs, Fabio speaks with his daughter Cataleya . He hands her a business card, which should give her entry to the U.S. embassy, in case she finds herself alone. He also gives Cataleya the address of her uncle Emilio  in Chicago, who will take care of her. Fabio and Alicia have Cataleya sit at the kitchen table and tell her not to move no matter what, and leave to try and fight off Marco and his men but are gunned down while their daughter watches. Cataleya stabs Marco in the hand with a kitchen knife, saying she has to kill Don Luis, and escapes her house. She then uses the business card her father gave her and goes to the US Embassy, where in return for turning in information about Don Luis' organization, they allow her entry into the United States. She takes the first flight to Miami, escapes the diplomatic personnel, and takes a bus to her uncle, Emilio, in Chicago. At first, she wanted to become a fashion designer or an artist, but since her parents were killed, she wants to become an assassin so she could get her revenge on Don Luis. The next day, Emilio says he will help her but is apprehensive, so he makes her a deal. If she goes to school, he will teach her how to be an assassin. Fifteen years later, Cataleya  works for Emilio as a hitwoman and her mark is the flower she was named after . She is shown sneaking into a police station, where she kills Genarro Rizzo , a big time gangster. Despite a massive manhunt, she manages to elude pursuit. The next day, FBI Special Agent James Ross  examines Rizzo's body and sees the Cattleya mark. Ross reveals that he has been tracking Cataleya for over four years, and she has killed at least 22 people so far. After further assassinations, including the death of millionaire William "Willy" Woogard, the FBI decides to release the information regarding Cataleya's calling card. Both Don Luis and Emilio recognize what is happening. Don Luis attempts to track down Cataleya. Emilio, angry that Cataleya's recklessness has not only endangered herself, but him and his entire family, cuts off all ties with her. Meanwhile, Cataleya is also having a romantic relationship with Danny , an aspiring artist. However, she is careful not to reveal too much of herself, much to his frustration. Danny secretly takes a photo of Cataleya while she sleeps, which finds its way into the police's facial recognition system, allowing Ross to track her down. At this point, Cataleya's life begins to unravel. After finding out about the picture Danny took of her, she is forced to cut off ties with him. She barely escapes her apartment when Ross raids it with a SWAT team and shocked to discover that Emilio and his family were murdered by Don Luis to send her a message. With no options left, she ambushes Ross in his home, demanding that he give her Don Luis' location or she begins killing his family. Ross reveals that Don Luis is under CIA protection, so she intimidates the CIA agent in charge of handling Don Luis into giving her the information she needs. She then travels to Don Luis' mansion in New Orleans, where she kills Marco by putting a gun through his neck and later kills Luis, who is mauled by Cataleya's two dogs. Meanwhile, Danny is detained by the FBI for questioning when he receives a call from Cataleya, who apologizes to him for leaving and reaffirms her love for him. She also hints that she might return someday. Since he has no evidence to charge Danny with any crime, Ross is forced to let him go. Meanwhile, Cataleya boards a bus headed for an unknown destination.