In Hong Kong, Cheng Lai-sheung  works two jobs with the hope of earning enough money to buy her own apartment with a view of the Victoria Harbor.<ref namehttp://www.variety.com/review/VE1117942962.html?categoryid1&nidVariety|titleJune 14, 2010|accessdateHoeij, Boyd von}} In mixed chronological order, we see scenes from Lai-sheung's life. In her childhood, her family and friends are evicted from their low-rent housing so that developers can turn it into expensive, seaview flats. Later in life, she vows to buy her mum and dad a new flat, but is unable to fulfill her promise before her mother dies. When her father becomes ill, she begins searching in earnest for a new place, finally fixating on the expensive building that now stands where she previously lived with her family. The flat costs millions, though, and the bank will only give her a 70% mortgage. The payments would reach over $15,000, and her two part-time jobs might not permit her to pay that. Unfortunately, because of an oversight in declaring her father's medical history, she no longer has insurance to pay for his expensive treatment. Thus, Lai-sheung must get a second job to save enough money for the flat of her dreams. Though she saves enough for a down-payment, her fathers medical bills become excessive. Lai-sheung asks her married lover to loan her some money for medical bills, but he refuses. One night, her father has trouble breathing; instead of giving him his oxygen, Lai-sheung allows her father to die. The insurance payment adds enough money to her current savings for her to purchase her dream flat. She immediately calls her real estate agent and agrees to take the flat at No 1 Victoria Bay. On her way to finalise the agreement, there is a hike in the stock market that makes the owners decide to raise the price. This sends Lai-sheung into a devastating frenzy where she attacks people who live in the high-rise, killing them with low-tech and household items. First, it is a security guard, whom she suffocates with a zip-tie. Next, she goes upstairs and kills a pregnant woman, her in-house helper, and her cheating husband. Upon hearing loud music from the upstairs flat, Lai-sheung goes up a floor and kills the five people partying in the apartment. During the course of these attacks, Lai-sheung is scratched on the face and stabbed in the ankle. She forms a tourniquet with her sock and another zip-tie. The police arrive at the flat, demanding entry. A struggle ensues, and both officers are  killed. Lai-sheung returns to her day job, and receives a call from her agent. He claims that the owners of the flat wish to sell after all. Lai-sheung suggests that they might want to sell for a much lower price, since there were 11 murders in the building the previous evening. That night, Lai-sheung's lover comes round to pick her up, but she turns her back on him and walks away, ending their relationship.