In New Orleans, Dylan Dog , an ace detective whose specialty is paranormal cases, narrates how he helped people with their cases until his wife, Cassandra, was killed by vampires. Since then he has been doing regular cases with his "Partner", Marcus Deckler . One night, when teenager Elizabeth Ryan  calls her father, without getting an answer, she goes to her father's room and finds him dead on the floor. She is then surprised, and almost attacked, by a strange, hairy, creature. The next day, Dylan is imformed, by Marcus, that Elizabeth asked for  him. When Dylan interrogates her, she explains that he is the only one that can help her and shows to him a card  that says "No pulse?, No problem". Dylan sees it, stands up and goes out, stating that he doesn't "do that" any more, followed by Marcus. That night Marcus is attacked and killed by an unknown creature . Dylan decides to officially help Elizabeth with her case. He takes his old, but helpful, case and rides to Elizabeth's house. After taking and analyzing a hair sample, he tells Elizabeth that the creature that killed her father is a female, eighteen-nineteen year old, werewolf, who is a member of the Cysnos werewolf family. Dylan visits the Cysnos family leader, Gabriel Cysnos , who has a past related to Dylan's activities, and realizes that Gabriel's nineteen year old daughter Mara might be his main suspect, an idea that Gabriel hates. After he is told off by Gabriel, Dylan is attacked by Gabriel's older son Wolfgang  who is then knocked unconsious by Dylan . Dylan then goes to the morgue  to see Marcus's wound and discovers that Marcus has been turned into a zombie  Marcus is shocked and surprised but he accepts his condition. When they go for a new arm, Dylan talks with the owner and is imformed that the vampires, led by Vargas , are after an artifact known as "The heart". Dylan then goes to the Corpus House, a nightclub owned by Vargas. He talks to Vargas, who denies being involved with the murders and tells Dylan to go while he still lets him to do so. Dylan then visits his old vampire friend, Borelli . Borelli tells Dylan that the artifact known as "The heart" is called "The heart of Belial", a cross-like relic that holds the blood of Belial, an old and very powerful vampire who cannot be killed unless his/her master is destroyed. After he finds the heart in the tumb of vampire elder known as Sclavi, Dylan goes after Vargas who has taken Elizabeth to the Corpus House. Vargas reveals to Elizabeth that he intends to turn her into a vampire and inject the blood of Belial into her. Dylan enters the Corpus House and finds that both Vargas and Elizabeth are gone. On his way to find Elizabeth and Vargas, Dylan realises that Elizabeth is the real enemy and wants to turn Vargas into Belial as a revenge for her father's murder. She tells him that the reason is not revenge, instead she says that they are the "good guys" and the undead  must pay. Dylan says that she is wrong and that she is the monster. She injects the blood into Vargas's body and escapes, but before she can do so she is attacked by Marcus who is knocked down by her. Dylan fights off Belial  while Wolfgang  and his werewolf allies attack Elizabeth. They manage to subdue and kill Elizabeth, and at the same time Belial dies in front of Dylan leaving Vargas's unconcious body. Dylan gives the heart to Wolfgang, the only one that Dylan can trust to protect it, and goes with Marcus. Finally, Dylan decides to revive his paranormal detective agency. using copies of the same card that Elizabeth gave him earlier, calling Marcus "partner"; something that Marcus had wanted for a long time.