The film opens as Eddie Lomax  drives an Indian motorcycle in an open desert plain . Soon enough, the motorcycle breaks down and Eddie dismounts, carrying nothing but his jacket, his .45 pistol, and a bottle of tequilla. As he lies in the desert drinking, he eventually sees his friend Johnny Sixtoes , a Mexican Indian, whom he had sent a postcard notifying him of his arrival. In their conversation, Eddie reveals that the surprise he wrote about in the letter was, in fact, the Indian motorcycle. He also reveals that he's there to kill himself as he goes into a drunken rage, revealing deep regret from their days in the Army, claiming that the souls of those that he killed haunt him. Firing shots off in all directions, he vents his buried feelings to Johnny, and hopes he will "give him the OK to take a journey". Soon after the shots are fired, a truck pulls up to Eddie, Johnny disappears, it gets clear that Eddie was hallucinating about him being present. Matt , Jesse ([[Silas Weir Mitchell , and Petey Hogan , sons of Ramsey Hogan  get out of the truck, Matt furious at one of Eddie's drunken shots almost killing him. Eddie staggers to them, not wanting any trouble; Matt, however, insists that he apologize. Matt then proposes that they take the motorcycle, and they'll forget about the gunshot. Eddie persists that the motorcycle is a gift for his friend, telling Matt to get off. Matt seems to comply, until he delivers a cheap blow to Eddie. After a small fight, Eddie is left beaten and shot in his right shoulder. As the brothers stand over Eddie, another truck passes with a local restaurant waitress Dottie  and cook Vern . Dottie expresses extreme concern; Vern, simply drives on, not wanting any trouble from the Hogans. Matt begins to load the motorcycle onto the truck, instructing Jesse to make sure that Eddie is dead. Jesse asks for Eddie's gun from Pete, who took it from the earlier struggle. Being the youngest of the three, Petey insists on doing the job. As Jesse and Matt load the motorcycle, Petey aims at Eddie's head. Eddie's eyes open briefly, which makes Petey uneasy. Two shots ring out, which make Matt and Jesse think that Pete shot Eddie twice. However, Petey froze and simply shot two rounds into the ground. Johnny Six Toes finds Eddie and nurses him back to health. Eddie then comes back to town to recover his pistol from Leon  and Lester  in the pawn shop by killing them. Eddie falls for Rhonda Reynolds , the other waitress and enlists the help of Jubal Early  to help him dispose of the bodies. He then sets the two rival gangs against each other in a bloody path to get his prized motorcycle for Johnny, get his revenge from the Hogans, and ultimately find a reason to carry on living in the end Eddie defeats Jesse and is once on the road with Johnny