Leslie Wright  is a straight-shooting physical therapist and die-hard basketball fan who is tired of being a guy's best friend. She and her god-sister, Morgan, are living together; Morgan dreams of becoming an NBA trophy wife. After a Nets basketball game Leslie helps star player, Scott McKnight ([[Common_, at a gas station. He offers to open her door for her , but the task proves difficult as the door to her old car is stiff and hard to open. She has a dent in the side of her door that she refuses to get fixed because her grandfather gave her the car and he had a dimple in his left cheek just like the car. He invites her to his birthday party, where she shows up with Morgan. He meets Morgan and suddenly takes an interest in her. After a quick relationship, Scott proposes to her. At the 2009 NBA All-Star Game, Scott becomes injured. The injury could possibly ruin his career. Morgan suggests that he enlist the help of Leslie because she did not approve of his previous good looking physical therapist, Bella Goldsmith. As a result, Leslie moves into their home. Rumors circle that Scott's career will end quickly if he does not recover by the playoffs, which causes Morgan to leave Scott through a letter. Scott becomes extremely discouraged, not wanting to continue recovery. Leslie encourages him, helping him get back in the game, and the two of them grow closer while she nurses him back to health. Scott is able to return to the NBA right before the playoffs. Initially, he is apprehensive and plays poorly until Leslie encourages him. He then makes the winning shot. Scott thanks Leslie profusely and offers to take her out to a nice dinner. After the dinner, Scott surprises Leslie with a completely remodeled car . Leslie thanks Scott with a quick kiss which he returns with a passionate kiss. Leslie and Scott sleep together, but Leslie wakes up to Morgan at Scott's door hoping to reconcile. Leslie quickly moves out as Scott and Morgan reunite. During a dinner engagement, Scott realizes that Morgan has a shallow personality; he noticed that Morgan recognized many types of expensive champagne, while Leslie did not mind eating from a food truck. At a televised interview, Scott informs the host that Leslie was more than a physical therapist and she managed to make the worst three months of his life, "the best three months of my life." Scott and Morgan then realize that Scott is in love with Leslie. Morgan understands and informs Scott that Leslie is meeting with the Philadelphia 76ers - because Leslie helped Scott recover in such a short amount of time, many teams offered her the position as an athletic trainer. Leslie seriously considered Philadelphia because she could not work for the Nets and with Scott. Scott finds her in Philadelphia and expresses his love for her. When they are shown a year later, Leslie is working as the Nets athletic trainer and they are married.<ref nameJust Wright |urlIMDb|publisher2 June 2012|author1990-2012}}