Achuthan Nair , an honest and sincere police constable, has a loving family consisting of his wife Ammu , two sons and two daughters. Achuthan Nair wants his elder son Sethumadhavan  to be a police inspector. He shares a cordial and amiable relation with his son. Sethu is engaged to Devi , the daughter of Krishnan Nair , his maternal uncle. One day, for charging a petty case against the son of MLA, Achuthan Nair is transferred to Ramapuram police station. The family shifts to Ramapuram. Keerikadan Jose , a hardcore criminal, rules the market of Ramapuram by extorting money from all traders. One day, Achuthan Nair tries to intervene in a scuffle and he is beaten brutally by Keerikadan. Sethu, who was in the market, witnesses it and to save his father by attacking Keerikadan and his goons. Keerikadan gets severely wounded and is admitted in hospital. The entire market celebrates the fall of Keerikadan and finds a new savior in Sethu. His friends misuse this opportunity by creating a brawl in the local pub. Achuthan Nair is deeply disturbed by this and accuses Sethu of slowly turning into a criminal. Though, tried to stay away from all chaos, gradually Sethu is dragged into issues. Haidrose , a local thug, claims to be a henchman of Sethu and starts collecting extortion money from the local traders. Even Ramanan , his brother-in-law, joins Haidrose. Sethu, on knowing this, beats up both in the market. But, Remanan on reaching home, twists the entire story; Achuthan Nair asks Sethu to leave the house and Sethu agrees. The local police inspector ([[Murali  arrests Sethu on a petty case and warns him not to create any more fracas. Keshu , his childhood friend, tries to pacify him; Sethu is broken down completely. In the meantime, Devi's parents fixes her marriage with another guy, which Devi is not ready for. Sethu meets Devi, explains his helplessness and asks her to follow her parents. She gets married, and he feels completely lonely. After getting discharged from hospital, Keerikadan Jose decides to avenge Sethu. He ransacks the entire house and manhandles his mother and sisters. Sethu is attacked by Parameshwaran , the lieutenant of Keerikadan. In a bid to save his life, Sethu vehemently and violently beats him with an iron rod. Parameshwaran gets seriously injured and is admitted in the hospital. Sethumadhavan is targeted again by Keerikadan and, in a bid to escape, kills Keerikkadan. Sethumadhavan is sentenced to prison for murdering Keerikkadan and hence is disqualified from being a police inspector. Head constable Achuthan Nair reads the Police Verification Report which cites Sethu as a "notorious criminal".