Emery Simms is a highly educated and successful business tycoon whose life takes a turn for the worse when he engages in an adulterous fling with the wildly free-spirited and exotic Allanah. Emery kills a man that was trying to get information out of him. It is then witnessed by a man who runs and flees afterwords. Emery doesn't see that the man he killed cell phone is there and it has all the call logs in it. He then makes a phone call to his friend who does not answer the phone. He later in the movie meets Alannah who's car has broken down. He gives her a ride to her work not knowing that she is working an angle to get what she wants. He then calls her and insists that they have dinner. They do but the police are following and see them make out and so does a man that is following her. The crazy man comes to the resturaunt and attacks Emery. Emery goes to see Alannah and sees the place she is staying at and takes her to one of their properties which is the condo. She makes herself at home and even invites a friend over who says she can keep the condo and the life if there is a hole in the condom. To which Alannah says no. Later Emery drops by for some sex and she has her friend wait outside so that she can do what she needs to do with Emery and it's hot just like when they had sex in Emery's car. Emery visit's his friend who gives him a box cutter and tells him to help him unpack. He does and they comment on some fun times they had in college. After that there is more motives. Later Emery is asked to come to the police station and gets interrogated with them because Allannah has turned up dead. Her throat had been cut. Before Alaanh had died she went to connie to ask for money for her and Emery's baby and connie gave her $100,000 dollars. She had been in the condo when her husband who wanted money showed up and she tried to get the moves on him. Then Emery had come in and asked them to leave and give him back that check to which the other man went off on Allanah and Emery searched her purse and got the check. He insulted the other man and they got into a fight in the man's words they fought and Allanah had left the condo very much alive. In Emery's statment he said that she had left the condo ALive. They were both let go for the mean while. Then it's been sometime after that connie and Emery's marriage is rocky and she is done. She packs her bags and leaves but when Emery is searching someone had taken pictures of Emery having sex in the car with Allanah. He gets angry. Sometime after that connie comes back but still doesn't trust Emery. At an event for lost youth Emery is arrested but before he had seen Brandon who told Emery that he wanted connie and Emery's life they got into a fight but Emery stopped and left Brandon Alive. After Emery is sentenced and in Jail connie shows up with Devorce papers and he signs. She gets up and leaves and doesn't want to hear what she wants. He sees Brandon with her and they are now together and Emery is in prision. In flashback we see that Brandon had set up Allanah and Emery as he was not the mark it was a plan so he could get connie. Which he suceeded and he was the one responsible for killing Allanah. And Emery was sentenced.