The nine characters are revealed to be: 1 - a petty criminal , 2 - a police officer , 3 - an illegal gun seller , 4 - a strip club owner and loan shark , 5 - a lawyer , 6 - a pedophile and rapist , 7 - a priest , 8 - a health insurance executive , and 9 - a Chinese store owner who does not know English . After a string of kidnappings, these nine people are locked inside a room and handcuffed to pipes. Then a masked man enters and explains each of them are there for a reason, and to survive, they must figure it out. Every ten minutes they don't the shooter will enter and kill one of them. The shooter leaves and a countdown begins. The group begins introducing themselves, and a few early connections are made. Christian says he once borrowed money from Sully, but paid it back. Coogan mentions he has been in multiple prisons. Kelly and Jackson are former lovers. Just as the group begins to think it is all a hoax, the shooter enters and kills Christian. Leon frees himself from his handcuffs and attempts to escape, but is brought back by the shooter. The shooter then kills Coogan, who mentions he is dying anyway, and tells Leon he is next. With seven people left, Mrs. Chan recognises Kelly as her lawyer who prosecuted a man who robbed her store. The group begins to see connections between themselves and the robber, Wade Greeley. The shooter returns, but as the seven only know part of the story, shoots Leon. He also denies being Wade Greeley. With the theory in doubt, Father Francis reluctantly admits Greeley did not rob the store; the real robber, Christian, confessed he did the robbery to pay back Sully. Mrs. Chan mistakenly identified Greeley, and Kelly prosecuted. Not all connections have been established, and the shooter enters and tries to kill Eddie. Father Francies puts himself in the path of the bullet and is killed instead. Sully realizes Christian must have bought the gun he robbed the store with from Leon. Mrs. Chan is the next to die. Kelly begs to be let go to be with her son, but the shooter is visibly angry Kelly used her son as an excuse, and leaves, but not before hinting Jackson is the father of Kelly's baby. Kelly confirms this, and also reveals she fabricated evidence to convict Greeley, saying she needed to win a case after many losses. She also used Jackson to unknowingly help her with this. Kelly further confesses to having murdered a man who once raped her, and changed evidence from that crime so she would not be connected. Eddie realizes the shooter must be Greeley's father, exacting revenge, and the remaining four begin to wonder what happened to Greeley after he went to prison. The shooter returns and kills Sully, who has no regret for his actions. With only Kelly, Jackson, and Eddie left, the three struggle to establish connections for Eddie and Coogan. Eddie supposes that Coogan was earlier referring to being infected with AIDS, and, as he has been in multiple prisons, could have raped Greeley and infected him. Then the final connection is made; Greeley would have applied for an experimental drug treatment for AIDS run by Eddie's company, but Eddie would have had to reject him due to his criminal conviction. They explain this to the shooter, Greeley's father, who agrees to let them all go. Kelly is released, but, having slowly revealed her true nature, steals the shooter's gun and kills Eddie, Jackson, and the shooter so as not to implicate her in her crimes. Kelly escapes as the police arrive and storm the room.