Advertising executive Nick Beam  thinks his life is going very well—until he returns home from work and discovers that his wife  is apparently having an affair with his boss, Philip Barlow . On the edge of a nervous breakdown, Nick drives around the city until small-time carjacker T-Paul  jumps into his SUV and attempts to rob him. Turning the tables on his mugger, Nick kidnaps T. Paul on the spot and drives him to the desert. After T-Paul robs a gas station in the Arizona desert, the mismatched pair devise a scheme to rob Nick's boss in revenge for the affair. Nick knows the combination to a safe in his boss's office containing a large amount of cash, as well as the best time to enter, and where not to venture in the building. T-Paul knows the weaknesses of the security system, how to avoid the cameras, and how to get through any electronic locks that they might encounter. Another criminal duo  get blamed for the gas-station robbery and pursue the pair to L.A. After a brief confrontation, the two ram Nick's truck off the road. After escaping the 'real' criminals, the pair execute their plan. During the robbery, however, Beam reveals himself to the security cameras after damaging his boss' prize fertility statue. The situation worsens further as the crooks that Nick and Paul escaped from, who are now waiting outside, follow them to their hotel and place Paul in a trap for Beam to find when he returns from the bar. Nick calls his wife and discovers that she was not, in fact, having an affair—the cuff links he thought were his boss's were left by his boss at the Christmas party, and it was her sister and her sister's fiancee in the bed. Suddenly overcome with remorse, he quickly manages to rescue T-Paul from his  kidnappers and return the money to the safe, after tying up the crooks and leaving them in an alley for the police. Nick assures T-Paul that nobody will bother to look at the tapes, unless something is missing or damaged. After trying to figure out what to do with the money, Nick and T-Paul get into a fight, ending their partnership. T-Paul decides to walk home, while Nick drives home and tells his wife what happened to him. Of course, Nick's face is still on the tape, and  the tapes are being closely examined. Nick races to his boss's office, but arrives too late—only to discover that 'an electrician' has recorded over the tape. After finding T-Paul, it's revealed that T-Paul recorded over the tape, saving Nick from the life he himself was desperately trying to escape. In return, Nick gives T-Paul a legitimate job—as the electrician responsible for the security system he so easily bypassed. After the credits finish, a postman delivers a letter to the gas station T-Paul robbed. The owner opens it up and finds it full of money .