The film begins with Michael McCrea , a perpetual waster, passed out some time in the mid-afternoon. He awakes to find two thugs, Ivan  and Orlando , staring at him. They remind him that he owes money to Darren Perrier , a local crime boss. The debt must be paid that night, or Ivan and Orlando will break two of Michael's bones of his own choice. After they depart, Michael heads down stairs and sees Brenda , a friend of his, carrying a bouquet of flowers. She informs Michael that her boyfriend, Shamie , with whom she has a rocky relationship, has given her the flowers by way of apologising for his absenteeism. Michael is uninterested, and leaves the building in pursuit of a loan in order to pay off his current debt. Michael heads to Delgado's Pool Hall, a nearby snooker bar, in search of a man known as The Mutt ([[Liam Cunningham , who is known to hand out loans. There, Michael finds his friend Clifford , who explains that The Mutt was only recently thrown out of the establishment; having assaulted a man for insulting his snooker skills. Leaving the bar, Michael gets into a kerfuffle with two clampers , who vow to find him and clamp his car later. Michael heads home only to find his father, Jim McCrea , waiting outside. Since he does not have the best relationship with his father, Michael is initially reluctant to talk. However, Jim reveals that he is dying of cancer and wishes to reconcile. The two head to a pub and begin to drink, but while there Michael learns of the location of The Mutt. He abandons his father, promising to talk later, and heads to The Mutt's location. At this new pub, Michael runs into Shamie, who is making out with a girl. Michael, now angry, tells him he needs to show Brenda some respect and break off his ties with her if he wishes to pursue other girls. Michael then finds The Mutt, who is having a drink with his associate Dinny . He asks The Mutt for a loan, but is refused. Giving up, Michael begins to drink at the bar only to be assaulted by an angry Shamie. Michael overpowers Shamie and demands he break up with Brenda, but he must let her down lightly. Storming off, he is stopped by The Mutt, who asks if Michael will join him and Dinny in a burglary. The money earned will pay off Michael's debt, but he won't get it until morning. Michael agrees, and the three head out. The burglary goes off with out a hitch, and The Mutt finds pictures that prove the home owner is cheating on his wife. The trio plan to blackmail him out of €30,000. Michael is dropped off and is assured that he will get his €10,000 come morning. Back at his car, he finds the clampers have found him and clamped his car. Immediately thereafter, Ivan and Orlando return and drive their truck full speed into Michael's clamped car. Michael flees the scene and is able to lose them, but he returns to his home in search of the pistol he keeps under his bed. Unfortunately, Brenda has stolen the gun and is contemplating suicide after being dumped by Shamie. She locks Michael out of her apartment just as Ivan and Orlando enter, having predicted that he would come home. They begin to beat Michael with a bat, and set his leg up against a radiator, preparing to break his leg. Before he can swing the bat, Orlando is shot dead by Brenda. Ivan, shocked, runs away to tell Perrier. While comforting Brenda, Jim enters and, upon noticing the body, tells them they need to properly dispose of Orlando. The three get into Brenda's car and head up onto an escarpment, where they bury Orlando. Jim comments that the locale is beautiful, with the lights below and stars above and the waft of cow shit in the air. He also refers to the history of the area, commenting that men who lived and died by the sword were buried here. Unfortunately, Brenda's car becomes flooded and they cannot get away, so Michael and Brenda spend the night in her car, while Jim stands outside, spending the whole night awake, watching Dublin. At Perrier's hideout, he is discussing Orlando's death with four other members of his crew. It is then revealed to him that, on top of being best mates, Ivan and Orlando were also lovers. Perrier goes to comfort the grieving Ivan, telling him that he is not judgmental about his homosexual relationship and that he will be putting a €10,000 bounty on Michael and Brenda. Back at Brenda's car, it's morning and Michael notices that his father has been up all night. Jim then admits that he does not have cancer, but instead believes he was visited by the Grim Reaper. During his visit, the Reaper informed Jim that the next time he sleeps, he will die. Upset that his father played on his sympathies, Michael angrily riles Brenda from her sleep and informs her that her car has to be burned. Once it is aflame, the trio head down the escarpment and back into the city. Unfortunately, they are caught in a rain storm and take shelter at a farm, but the owner, a strange old woman , calls the police and claims the trio raped her. Having fled down the road, they take cover upon seeing a Garda Síochána patrol car. Once it has passed, they cut through a forest but Brenda vows to make her relationship with Shamie work. An angry Michael then berates her for blindly loving Shamie despite the fact that he is unfaithful and does not love her back. While Jim takes him aside, Brenda storms off and, once they notice she is gone, Michael and Jim follow. They catch up with her as she is being arrested by two police officers. While sneaking up on them, Jim snatches Michael's gun and confronts the officers, telling them to get off to the side and on the ground "tout fucking suite." Once they are out of the way, the trio steal the cruiser and, shortly afterwards, Michael gets a call from The Mutt, who gives them his location in order for Michael to pick up his share of the blackmail earnings. With plans to meet The Mutt behind a factory at one in the afternoon, Brenda demands that, in the meantime, she be dropped off at Shamie's so she can try to restore their relationship. Along the way, the trio encounter a young man ([[Chris Newman  and two of his mates joyriding in a stolen car. Jim and the man talk and the two trios swap cars. In their new stolen car, they arrive at Shamie's; however, Brenda arrives just as a nearly naked woman strolls out and a nearly naked Shamie runs after her. The two start to get intimate in the hallway just as Shamie notices Brenda, but Brenda runs away. Outside the building, Brenda bypasses the car and runs down a nearby street, prompting Michael to chase after her and comfort her. Jim, left behind, approaches Jerome  and Russ , two members of the Savage Canine Vernacular, who are training their Doberman Pinschers to attack. Jim helps them, then picks up Michael and Brenda. They trio arrive at the warehouse and Michael heads in alone to get his share. He meets with The Mutt and Dinny, but the two plan on betraying him. The Mutt knocks Michael out with a wrench and he and Dinny carry the unconscious Michael to The Mutt's car. As they are putting him in the boot, Jim approaches, armed with a pistol. He knocks both Dinny and The Mutt out while Brenda steals the entire €30,000. With Michael back in the car, the trio head out. Hiding out in another industrial area, Jim reveals the reason why Michael became estranged from his parents. After witnessing a local thug, Steve Lynch, beating up a woman, Michael intervened and beat up Lynch. Lynch returned to Michael's house later, where only his mother, Elaine, was home. Lynch proceeded to assault Elaine, leaving her badly injured. Believing his parents blamed him for the attack, Michael broke off contact with them. Elaine and Jim would later split up, with Elaine moving to County Clare. Jim then asks Michael if he can have some cocaine, and Michael agrees, taking him to Delgado's Pool Hall in order to buy off of Clifford. However, during the sale, Clifford signals Mulligan , who calls Perrier. While Jim is snorting coke in the bathroom and Michael and Brenda are talking, Perrier and his goons enter. Michael accidentally fires off his pistol, causing everyone to take cover. Other gang members, primarily Ivan, begin shooting but Brenda, angry at Clifford, beats him over the head and she and Michael use him as a human shield to escape. Clifford is killed in the process, and Jim is left behind. Upon exiting Delgado's, the pair find that their stolen car has been clamped, and are forced to flee on foot. Thankfully, Shamie is able to find them in his car, announcing that he has been looking for Brenda. Michael and Brenda jump into his car. Outside Delgado's, Perrier and his crew join with The Mutt and Dinny. Jerome and Russ approach, but their dogs growl and Perrier coldly shoots them. Jim walks out of the hall just as the gangs are leaving, but The Mutt notices him and he is taken hostage. Meanwhile, Shamie has tried to reconcile with Brenda, but she refuses him and her and Michael take his car at gunpoint. They take refuge in a hotel. They receive a call from a badly beaten Jim who explains to Michael that he is going to "take a nap" after the phone call - implying, true to his vision, that he will die. Despite this, Michael arms himself and prepares to go to Perrier's hideout. Brenda tries to warn him against it, but the two share a passionate kiss and Michael heads out in Shamie's car. Michael arrives at Perrier's hideout, with the €30,000 and a pistol hidden in the crotch of his pants. He is informed that his father is going to die that night, though it will be quick. Michael's death, however, will be slow. He is pinned down on the table while Ivan attempts to castrate him. Before it can be done, however, The Mutt asks for his money so he can leave. Perrier pockets the money, just as Hank  shoots and kills Dinny. In the confusion, Michael is able to escape, and Perrier kills The Mutt. Two of Perrier's cronies pursue Michael, who has acquired a golf club. He uses it first to knock out Blaise  and then Victor . Michael, now armed with a pistol, returns and confronts Perrier, Ivan, Hank, and Kenny . Lining them up against a wall, Michael takes their guns and his money. Kenny calls his bluff, and is shot in the leg. Michael then pushes his father out of the building and loads him into Shamie's car. At the same time, Perrier reveals that he has an AK-74u hidden under the snooker table. With that in hand, he, Ivan, and Hank head outside to confront Michael, who is attempting to flee. Perrier fires into the car as Michael reverses, and Jim is hit in the chest. They comment on how the Reaper came after all, and Jim calls him a cunt. An enraged Michael charges out of the car at Perrier, firing his gun, wounding Ivan and Hank in the process. Perrier shoots at Michael, severely wounding him. Before Perrier can finish him, multiple vans pull up, brought to the location by Brenda, containing members of the Savage Canine Vernacular. They set their dogs upon Perrier, who is mauled to death. Brenda, Jerome, and Russ inform a semi-conscious Michael that they're taking him to Derek Dawson, the best veterinarian in the business. The next morning, Michael, having had his wounds treated, and Brenda are at the funeral for Jim, who is buried alongside Achilles and Apollo, Russ and Jerome's dogs, at the same place that the trio had buried Orlando earlier. A heartfelt eulogy is given, and Michael and Brenda profess their love for each other. The pair then head to County Clare, where Michael intends to reconcile with his mother. The narrator, implied to be the Reaper, ponders as to whether the experience has made Michael a better man, possibly an enlightened man. He is shown waving at his mother before the camera fades out.