Siddhant Rai is a wealthy widower who lives with his three children Rohit, Rahul and Rani and their butler BBC. Siddhant has had many governesses come to take care of his children, but the children always drive them away. When enough is enough, Siddhant decides to send his children to boarding school but changes his mind when he remembers how his younger brother Rajit left the house and never contacted the household again. Siddhant wishes to get a new governess - a girl named Anna from an orphanage applies for the job. A thief named Shekhar and his friend Jadu are on the run from police after robbing a bank. Shekhar spots Anna and tries to woo her but she shows absolutely no interest in him. Shekhar and Jadu follow Anna to Siddhant's house - they now believe she comes from a rich family. At first, the children try to make Anna leave but soon realise that they love her like an older sister. Shekhar continues to hit on Anna and she realises she too has fallen for him. Siddhant meets Skehkar and believes he is a decent man so allows him and Anna to get married. On the wedding day, Siddhant learns the truth about Shekhar and has him sent to jail. Anna is heartbroken and leaves the house. Soon, Siddhant is killed in a car accident. The children are placed under the care of their three greedy uncles, who are really only interested in gaining Siddhant's fortune. Their uncles start treating the kids extremely badly. Just as the adoption papers are about to be signed, a young man comes to the Rai household, claiming to be Rajit Rai . In fact, the man is really Shekhar - BBC reveals that he and Jadu had Shekhar released on bail and gave him all Rajit's secrets. The children warm up to 'Raju Chacha' and form a special bond with him. Soon, Anna returns to the household and is angry to see Shekhar there - she believes he is trying to rob the children. Problems start when another man enters the house and says he is Rajit Rai. Shekhar makes a deal with the children's uncles - saying he will take only 25% of the share if he is proved to be the real Raju Chacha. The uncles agree but it is revealed Shekhar conned them and also the 'real' Rajit Rai is his fellow conman, Gafoor. The uncles leaves the house. Anna now believes Shekhar is truly there to save the children and reconciles with him. Anna, Shekhar and the children live a happy new life together. However, the happiness is short lived as the uncles return and reveal that they know Shekhar's true identity - Shekhar is sent back to jail. Meanwhile, the children learn that it was in fact their uncles who had killed Siddhant because they wanted his money, they also learn that their uncles now want to kill them as well. Shekhar once again escapes from jail. He kills the uncles in the same way they killed Siddhant. Anna and Shekhar get married and take care of Rohit, Rahul and Rani. They are all still looking out for the real Raju Chacha.