Dr. Martin Harris and his wife Liz arrive in Berlin for a biotechnology summit. However, upon arriving at Hotel Adlon, Martin realizes his briefcase was left at the airport. He takes a taxicab driven by a woman named Gina, but on the way to the airport, the cab crashes off a bridge into the river. Martin is knocked unconscious upon impact, but Gina saves him from drowning before fleeing from the scene to avoid the police, since she is an illegal immigrant from Bosnia. On Thanksgiving day, Martin regains consciousness at the hospital after being in a coma for four days. Martin returns to his hotel, only to discover another man with his wife, who claims she doesn't know him. He attempts to contact his old colleague Prof. Rodney Cole, who is unavailable due to Thanksgiving in the U.S. Martin then heads to the office of Prof. Leo Bressler, whom he is scheduled to meet that day. However, he sees the impostor, "Martin B," already in a meeting with Bressler. As Martin attempts to prove his identity, Martin B shows him his ID and family photo – both of which have Martin's name, only with his face replaced by that of the impostor. Disillusioned by the identity crisis, Martin falls unconscious and finds himself back at the hospital. Smith, an assassin sent to target him, kills Nurse Gretchen Erfurt, but Martin escapes. He then seeks help from Nurse Erfurt's friend, private investigator and former Stasi agent Ernst Jürgen. Martin's only clues are his notebook and Gina, who works at a diner after being fired from the taxicab company since the incident. While Martin attempts to persuade Gina into helping him clear up his identity problem, Jürgen digs up information related to Martin and the biotechnology summit. He discovers that the summit is to be attended by Prince Shada of Saudi Arabia, who is funding a secret project headed by Bressler. Prince Shada has survived numerous assassination attempts from extremists in his own country, and Jürgen suspects that Martin's identity theft may be another attempt at taking the Prince's life. Meanwhile, Smith and another assassin, Jones, attempt to eliminate Martin and Gina, but the couple escape after a fight at her apartment, in which Gina kills Smith, and a car chase. Martin looks at his notebook and sees a set of numbers written by his spouse. The numbers correspond to words found on specific pages of the notebook, which appear as secret codes. Using the schedule written on the notebook, Martin confronts Liz, who tells him that he left his briefcase at the airport. Meanwhile, Jürgen receives Cole at his office, and discovers that both Cole and Martin are members of a secret squad of mercenaries known as "Section 15." Realizing Cole is there to kill him, Jürgen commits suicide by drinking cyanide-laced coffee in order to protect Martin. After retrieving his briefcase, Martin parts ways with Gina. She sees him kidnapped by Cole and Jones, and steals a taxicab and chases after Cole's van. Martin wakes up in a car park and is told by Cole that Martin Harris is a cover name, and that he, Liz and Martin B are assassins sent to target the summit. Because he injured his head during the car crash, his memory was altered and he believed that his fake Martin Harris persona was his own identity. Gina rushes in and stops Jones from killing Martin as Cole hides in his van. There is a brief fight between Jones and Gina that ends when Gina drives her car into Jones and squashes him against Cole's van. Gina drives her car into the van and sends it plummeting out the car park with Cole still inside, killing him in the process. Martin discovers a hidden compartment in his briefcase and finds two Canadian passports, realizing he and Liz were in Berlin three months prior to plant a bomb in the suite that is to be occupied later by Prince Shada for the summit. Having become aware of his own role in the assassination plot, Martin seeks to redeem himself by thwarting the assassination and heads for the hotel with Gina in tow. They are immediately arrested by security, but Martin convinces them of his presence in the hotel three months back. He then realizes that Prince Shada is not the target, but Bressler, who has developed a genetically modified breed of corn that is capable of surviving any climate, easing the world's food supply problem. With Bressler's death and the theft of his research, billions of dollars would fall into the wrong hands. Liz uses her own copy of the notebook's secret codes to remotely access Bressler's laptop and steal the data. After being convinced there is a bomb, security evacuates the hotel. Seeing that their assassination attempt has been foiled, Liz tries to disarm the bomb, but cannot reach the disarmament button and is killed as a section of the Adlon is blown up. Martin kills Martin B, the last remaining assassin, before he could murder Bressler. Bressler later announces his project to the world, which will be displayed to public for free, while Martin and Gina board a train with new passports, adopting new identities.