Professor Kurian Fernandez , a convict escapes from jail, along with Raghu , his cell mate. After a failed attempt to chase and nab the duo, the officials draws out several plans to capture both. Police authorities strongly feel that Fernandez will land up in Banglore and may try to meet up with his only daughter. Unnikrishnan  and K.Purushothaman Nair , two inspectors from Kerala police are sent to Bangalore to follow the activities of Gadha , daughter of Fernandez. Upon reaching Bangalore, Unnikrishnan meets Peter ([[Mukesh , his college mate, who is also now an inspector with Karnataka police. Unnikrishnan and Peter makes up a team and sidelines Purushothaman Nair, who struggles hard to cope up with Kannada language. The police team stays at a room just opposite to where Gadha stays as a paying guests. Gadha, working at an advertisement agency as a copy writer is staying along with Maggie Aunty , who is constantly in fight with her son . Unnikrishnan and Peter, who are born flirts, are more interested in drinking and playing cards than investigation. K.P.Nair tries to report this to the authorities, but fails in getting both in control. Unnikrishnan slowly develops a crush towards Gadha, which gets transformed into a full fledged passion, but Gadha never accepts it. Unni befriends with Maggie aunty and tries all ways to woo Gadha. Meanwhile Unni and Peter finds out that Fernandez is in the city and is constantly in touch with Gadha. The police commissioner  is in all efforts to nab Fernandez. Unnikrishnan decides to use Gadha to reach out Fernandez. Gadha reveals to Unni about the past of Fernandez, when he was a college professor, who was loved and cared by the students. The sincere professor questioned the college authorities on many administration malpractices, which made him a dust in their eyes. The son of the police commissioner was punished by professor, which led to serious fracas in college and authorities were forced to take action on him under severe protests from students. In retaliation, he attacked professor while traveling with a female student. The girl got raped and killed and professor was falsely convicted in the case. Now, professor is out of jail to avenge on it. Unnikrishnan tries to convince professor with the help of Gadha, but he fails to give up. Meanwhile, an old man, who is a client of the ad agency, where Gadha works, likes her and asks her to join him as his secretary abroad. Gadha, who had by then developed a soft feeling towards Unni lets him to bring his mother  to see her. At the same time, Professor succeeds in killing the son of the commissioner. He orders a shoot at sight at Fernandez. Professor goes berserk and looses mental stability and decides to plant a bomb at the city stadium, which might kill hundreds of civilians. Unnikrishnan asks Gadha to make him give up this heinous plan, but he refuses. That evening, Fernandez plants a bomb, but police team under Unnikrishnan corners him and takes him to the tower. Professor, despite repeated requests denies to explain how defuse the bomb. But Unnikrishnan successfully defuses the bomb, thereby saving the lives of hundreds. But Gadha, who actually wanted to join with Unni, couldn't join with him and decides to go with the old man to London. The film ends with both the cars with Gadha and Unni stopping at a junction, when the signal turns green, they move to opposite roads.