Paramvir Singh  is a Non-resident Indian  living happily with his Canadian wife Mary  along with his two kids Karam and Veer and his mother  in Vancouver British Columbia Canada. Dharam Singh , is Paramvir's long lost dad who had left them by taking Gajodhar Singh , Paramvir's younger brother with him to lead a criminal lifestyle. Once when an Indian woman and her husband, who's Canadian, comes to visit them, sees a picture of Dharam in their house. When Paramvir finds out that his father and brother are in Banaras, his mother sends him straight off to bring them back. When Paramvir reaches Banaras, he meets his brother and finds that he is a con man just like his father. Paramvir tracks Gajodhar in a bar where he also meets his dad, Dharam, who refuses to acknowledge him as his son. After this Gajodhar comes there, and a jeweller  shows up as well to take revenge on Gajodhar and Dharam for conning him. Paramvir backs them up, while Gajodhar goes on a date with Saheba , a Punjabi author. But when Saheba's brothers find out about her relationship with Gajodhar, they go violent and take Saheba with them back to Punjab. When Dharam sees that Gajodher is hopeless, he asks Paramvir to help, and acknowledges that he is his father but he shouldn't tell Gajodhar about that, after which Paramvir and Gajodher move to Punjab to get back his love. Saheba's elder brother Joginder Singh  and her other brothers want to marry her to an NRI. When they come to know that an NRI is coming they call him to their house. Actually these two NRI's are Paramvir and Gajodhar,who uses an alias as Karamvir. Joginder, after meeting both of them, decide that they would marry their sister to Paramvir, not to Gajodhar. After this Paramvir tries many ideas to get rejected by them, so that Saheba should get married to Gajodhar. Gajodhar tries to run with Saheba, many times, but always gets into a serious problem and all the plans get failed. Then Dharam shows up at the last moment with Parmavir's wife who mistakes him thinking he is re-marrying. One day Gajodhar learns Paramvir's kids are his nephews and Paramvir is his brother. Then they all plan to run away but Saheba's brothers find out that they ran. They reach an old storage place. Joginder's rival, Minty also reaches there. After Paramvir and Gajodhar save Saheba's familys life, they allow him to marry Saheba and they all go back to Canada with Paramvir and to his mother.At the end the entire family is reunited.